# Introduction

## Hossein's version 

Durability of concrete structures against gradual ingress of deleterious liquids is mainly controlled by porosity and pore structure of cement paste matrix [1]. There are multiple factors that affect general properties of capillary pore structure in concrete, which include curing regimes, cementitious materials contents, and water-to-cementitious materials ratios [1-2]. Therefore, it is necessary to precisely measure and characterize pore structure in concrete to determine the optimum concrete curing conditions and mix proportions. Over the past few decades, mercury intrusion porosimeter (MIP) test, has been used to measure porosity and pore size distribution in cement-based composites. In this method, using relatively high pressure, mercury is injected into the pore spaces of the matrix to determine porosity and its structure. MIP test, with an ability to measure pore sizes in the range of 0.006–500 µm, is typically performed on a small oven-dried cement-composite specimen and mercury is gradually applied on the desired surface [1]. However, it has been reported that, cement matrix surface tension as well as mercury contact angle with cement pore wall affects the accuracy of MIP
measurements [3].

To address the uncertainty of MIP results, image analysis method is recently developed to directly measure paste matrix porosity. In this technique, backscattered scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images of polished impregnated epoxy concrete surface is captured and analyzed using ImageJ commercial software [1]. To go further, ImageJ software quantifies the total area of pores using a grayscale thresholded image. However, this commercial software solely provides total porosity of the matrix and lacks the ability to characterize porosity[1]. In addition, comparing the total porosity of paste matrices measured by MIP method with that measured by ImageJ revealed that porosity is underestimated in the former technique. In fact, in contrary to MIP, Image analysis is capable of measuring both connected and disconnected capillary pores, and hence gives a more realistic picture of the paste matrix pore system [1].

As a result, it is required to develop an image analysis-based technique to not only determine total porosity, but also characterize the pore structure (i.e. shape and size) of the analyzed cement-composite matrix. For this reason, it is proposed to write a robust code in python to read and analyze greyscale thresholded SEM images. The first step of developing this method is to calibrate total matrix porosity of python-based image analysis with that of ImageJ software. It is also expected to find pore size distribution of the matrix using our previously calibrated algorithm developed in python. In the next step, a machine learning algorithm will be included to our program to characterize shapes of pores as a function of their size distribution. This step illuminates the relationship between the pore size and their physical characteristics. Finally, another machine learning algorithm will be added to our developed program to compare/ match SEM grayscale thresholded images with SEM elemental maps. This step is beneficial to determine
whether any relationship could be established between chemistry of cement hydration products and their corresponded physical characteristics (i.e. color, shape, and size). Consequently, the developed method not only provides more accurate results than MIP technique, but also determines physical properties of matrix pores as well as cement hydration products

dasdasfas
